W-12236427-Add-APIkit-forGraphQL-CP (#108)
mulesoft/docs-apikit: modules/ROOT/pages/apikit-4-forgraphql.adoc

= APIkit for GraphQL Overview
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> GraphQL is a data query and manipulation language that enables API consumers to ask for the data that is only relevant to them. The APIkit for GraphQL module supports the implementation of GraphQL services. These services use connectors to map GraphQL APIs to the existing backends where source data is stored.

Author: juanchib asked: Worth mention that this service is ideal to use as an experience API in the API-led architecture ?

Author: @juanchib, we can say something like:
NOTE: This service is designed to be used as an experience API in the API-led architecture.
Do you think it would be appropriate?

Reviewer: I'm not quite sure if it is worth to add that sentence. IMO, it makes the impression that the services are limited to experience API only, while it is not always true.

Author: Let's leave this change for future discussions.
Thanks for your collaboration!

> The APIkit scaffolder enables you to quickly implement projects by generating the initial skeleton of the application at design time based on the GraphQL schema. The application design maps queries, mutations, and types in your API to the Mule flows so you only specify how your data sources fulfill a particular data type.

Author: @juanchib suggested: 
I would make a link/mention the ACB documentation section where this is explained.

Author: I agree! I've already contacted Fer Mujica so we can get the link to ACB.

Author: TDB, but it seems that the page link would be: 
xref:anypoint-code-builder::implement-a-graphql-api-specification.adoc[]

Author: Added! ;)

= APIkit for GraphQL Overview
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="apikit"]

> GraphQL is a data query and manipulation language that enables API consumers to ask for the data that is only relevant to them. The APIkit for GraphQL module works on Anypoint Code Builder and it enables you to develop Mule applications. This module supports the implementation of GraphQL services, which use connectors to map GraphQL APIs to the existing backends where source data is stored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphQL is a data query and manipulation language that enables API consumers to ask for data that is relevant only to them. The APIkit for GraphQL module works with Anypoint Code Builder, enabling you to develop Mule applications. This module supports implementing GraphQL services, which use connectors to map GraphQL APIs to the existing backends where source data is stored.
```

The APIkit scaffolder enables you to quickly implement projects by generating the initial skeleton of the application at design time based on the GraphQL schema. The application design maps queries, mutations, and types in your API to the Mule flows so you only specify how your data sources fulfill a particular data type.

At run time, the APIkit for GraphQL router analyzes the query graph and orchestrates the execution of Mule flows based on the requests. The result of each flow execution is combined to return a result that mirrors the shape of the requested query.

== See Also

> * xref:anypoint-code-builder::implement-a-graphql-api.adoc[Implement a GraphQL API specification]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* xref:anypoint-code-builder::implement-a-graphql-api.adoc[Implement a GraphQL API Specification]
```

Reviewer 2: If you remove the hard-coded title, antora will fill it in automagically.

> * xref:apikit-graphql-api-mapping.adoc[Mapping a GraphQL API to your Data Sources]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* xref:apikit-graphql-api-mapping.adoc[Mapping a GraphQL API to Your Data Sources]
```

Reviewer 2: If you're unsure about title capitalization, see the https://capitalizemytitle.com/ tool.

Author: Great! Thanks!

> * xref:apikit-graphql-api-implementation.adoc[Querying a GraphQL API implementation]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* xref:apikit-graphql-api-implementation.adoc[Querying a GraphQL API Implementation]
```
